gripper extension rules (#13)
robocup-logistics/rcll-rulebook: rulebook.tex

may only occupy up to $25\%$ of this additional \SI{0.14}{\metre}
(Robotino 2) or \SI{0.10}{\metre} (Robotino 3) wide ring around the
robot. The only additional actuator allowed is one gripping device for

> workpieces which can be the original or a modified one. In the rest position and while driving it also mustbe within the same diameter of the other additional hardware.

Reviewer: typo: mustbe -> must be

Also, please keep the lines shorter than 80 characters, as in the surrounding paragraph.

> workpieces which can be the original or a modified one. In the rest position and while driving it also mustbe within the same diameter of the other additional hardware.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
workpieces which can be the original or a modified one. In the resting position and while driving it also must be within the same diameter of the other additional hardware.
```
rest -> resting (also includes the mustbe -> must be spotted by @morxa)

> During interaction with a machine, the gripper may be extended to twice the robot diameter, provided that the direction is within the angle of the two outermost points of the corresponting MPS. The

Reviewer 2: This is not at all clear. If we allow to extend twice the diameter, that's 80 cm! I would think that this is way too far. Also, the what does "within the angle..." mean? Explain better, possibly also add a picture. I don't really understand what you mean here.

And please break lines at 80 characters.

Reviewer 2: The new explanation is better, but I think it should be further clarified with a picture. I still thing twice the diameter is too much.

Author: The diameter of the Robotino is 45cm, the gripper should now look out another 45cm during operation. Such a definition (with Factor 2) is easier to control. But ok, we can also define not more than 35cm (width of the mps), so it can't look out on the other side. 
What do the others think?

modifications outside the Robotino area (e.g., Northstar, indoor GPS).
There must be no changes to the controller or mechanical system.
The robots peripherals must not exceed the maximum total height of
\SI{1.1}{\metre} including the tower and the table on top. Additional
hardware (sensors, computing equipment, etc.)  must be within a circle
of a diameter of \SI{0.55}{\metre} or centered at the robot's rotational
center-point. Additional hardware may only occupy up to $25\%$ of this 
additional \SI{0.05}{\metre} wide ring around the
robot. The only additional actuator allowed is one gripping device for
workpieces which can be the original or a modified one. In the resting
position and while driving it also must not exceed the robot diameter by
more than this 5cm, including workpiece.
In front of a machine and during a production process, the gripper may
be extended up to 30cm. But it is only allowed to reach a maximum of 
15cm into the machine area.
The gripper is allowed to transport one workpiece at a time. And it
must release the workpiece for safety whenever the referee
wants to take out it. For example, if the referee presses the release

> button or key, the gripper releases the workpiece.

Reviewer 3: Are we sure this is implemented yet?
The way this is formulated the RefBox has to have a function to request a specific robot to open the gripper. I have not seen this being implemented with any team as referee's in the past have forcefully taken out workpieces. For good conduct this should be implemented properly (including refbox message) or postponed for 2020.

Author: This was the original text before, i didn't  changed that. But of course it's not comprehensible because there's no mechanism to open the gripper. Should i remove this phrase?

Reviewer 4: Please remove the phrase about opening the gripper. Then I agree with the text.
